---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/2-mechanics/character-rules/1-campaign-level/"}
---

Campaign Level (CL) is a reference value for the character’s level, enemies, tests, and obstacles within the game. It determines how many points a player has to build their character sheet, following the table below:

| **Level**      | **Campaign Level** | **Attributes** | **Skills** | **Powers** | **Minimum Attribute** |
| -------------- | ------------------ | -------------- | ---------- | ---------- | --------------------- |
| Student        | 4                  | 12             | 8          | 0          | 0                     |
| Genin          | 4                  | 12             | 8          | 4          | 0                     |
| Chuunin        | 8                  | 36             | 24         | 12         | 2                     |
| Special Jounin | 10                 | 48             | 32         | 16         | 3                     |
| Jounin         | 12                 | 60             | 40         | 20         | 4                     |
| Elite Jounin   | 16                 | 84             | 56         | 28         | 6                     |
| Sannin/Kage    | 20                 | 108            | 72         | 40         | 8                     |

Following the table, in a Campaign Level (CL) 12 - Jounin game, players will have 60 points to allocate to Attributes, 40 points for Skills, and 20 points for Powers. During character creation, all points must be spent! In addition to determining the points available for character creation, the CL also sets the maximum and minimum limits for Attributes, Powers, and Skills that a character can have.

- **Maximum Attribute Limit**: This is equal to the Campaign Level. Thus, in a CL 11 game, a character’s Attributes cannot exceed level 11.
- **Minimum Attribute Limit**: As noted in the previous table, there is a column called “Minimum Attribute.” When allocating Attributes, players must meet this minimum value for all Attributes. In other words, they must first spend points on the lowest Attributes to reach the minimum before freely distributing the remaining points.
- **Power/Skill Limit**: The level of Powers cannot exceed half the Campaign Level (rounded down). For example, in a CL 11 game, Powers can have a maximum level of 5. This limit also applies to Social Attributes and Skills.

The Campaign Level is determined by the Game Master, who should increase it as the story progresses and characters gain experience points. After this is determined, proceed to [[2. Mechanics/Character Rules/2. - Shinobi Rank\|2. - Shinobi Rank]]