---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/2-mechanics/character-rules/6-skills/"}
---

While Attributes represent a character’s raw and potential capabilities, Skills represent specialized applications of those capabilities. For example, if your character has high Dexterity, they have great potential for acrobatic movements, but it’s by purchasing and advancing the Acrobatics skill that they can fully utilize their body’s potential.

### BUYING SKILL LEVELS

**Initial Level**: Equal to half the base Attribute (rounded up).  
For example, if a character has Dexterity 2, their initial Acrobatics level will be 1. If they have Dexterity 3, their Acrobatics will be level 2.

**Cost of Additional Levels**: Purchasing 1 level in a Skill costs exactly 1 point.  
For example, if you have Athletics 0 and want Athletics 3, you must spend 3 Skill points. Similarly, if you have Acrobatics 5 and want Acrobatics 9, you must spend 4 points.

**Skill Limit**: The number of points spent on a Skill cannot exceed half the Campaign Level (rounded down). For example, in a CL 11 game, you can spend a maximum of 5 points on a single Skill.

### USING SKILLS

Using a Skill typically requires a check, which must follow the rules in the Test System chapter.

### UNTRAINED SKILLS

Handle Animals, Mechanisms, Medicine, Occultism, and Poisoncraft are Skills that can only be used if you are trained in them. For example, if you haven’t spent at least 1 Skill point in Mechanisms, you lack the minimum knowledge to attempt disarming a trap.

When the word “trained” appears after a Skill’s name, it means untrained characters cannot attempt checks with that Skill. On the character sheet, Skills requiring training are marked with [x].

The Poisoncraft Skill is marked with [x][x] and cannot be purchased at any level unless the character has the Chemist feat (which requires Intelligence 8).

### ARMOR PENALTY

Acrobatics, Athletics, and Stealth require freedom of movement. Most armors make using these Skills more difficult. When the word “armor” appears after a Skill’s name, it means characters wearing armor suffer a penalty to their checks. This penalty depends on each piece of equipment. Generally, heavier armor causes greater hindrance. If a character wears multiple pieces of armor, their penalties are cumulative.

### REQUIRED ACTION

Each Skill has its own usage rules. Unless specified, using a Skill requires a Move Action if it merely supports the character, or a Standard Action if it aims to hinder an opponent in some way.

### RETRYING

In general, you can retry a failed Skill check and keep trying indefinitely, as long as you have time. However, some Skills carry penalties (or consequences!) for failure.

For example, if a character fails a Mechanisms check to unlock a door, they can try again. But if the door has a trap (triggered if the Mechanisms check fails by 4 or more), there’s a consequence for failure.

Similarly, a character who fails an Athletics check to climb a slope can try again. But if they fail by 4 or more, they fall. They can get up and try again—assuming the fall wasn’t too painful…

### FAVORABLE AND UNFAVORABLE CONDITIONS

Some situations can make a Skill easier or harder to use, resulting in a bonus or penalty to the check’s accuracy. In special cases, the Game Master can adjust success chances in two ways:

- Grant a +2 bonus to the Skill user to represent circumstances that improve performance, such as having precise information about the task or conditions that make the task easier (e.g., searching for a book in a well-organized library with a Search check).
- Apply a -2 penalty to the Skill user to represent circumstances that hinder performance, such as working under pressure or conditions that make the task harder (e.g., searching for a potion vial in a cluttered laboratory with a Search check).

Multiple favorable or unfavorable conditions, or a mix of both, may apply to a single check. In such cases, the Game Master applies bonuses and penalties for each condition to determine the final accuracy of the check.

### PROVIDING ASSISTANCE

Sometimes characters work together and assist each other. One character (usually the one with the highest accuracy) is considered the leader and makes the check normally, while each helper makes the same check against the same Difficulty Class (DC) minus 2. A successful assistance check grants the leader a +1 bonus to their result, with an additional +1 for every 4 points by which the assistance check exceeds the DC.

In many cases, external help provides no benefit—for example, you can’t help a teammate be quieter on a Stealth check. Alternatively, only a limited number of helpers can assist at once (e.g., there’s not enough space around a single lock). The Game Master limits assistance as they see fit, based on the task and conditions.